README.md, before:

# Full Stack Trivia API Backend

## Getting Started

### Installing Dependencies

#### Python 3.7
In order for current dependecies to work please use python 3.7 

Follow instructions to install the latest version of python for your platform in the [python docs](https://docs.python.org/3/using/unix.html#getting-and-installing-the-latest-version-of-python)

#### Virtual Enviornment

We recommend working within a virtual environment whenever using Python for projects. This keeps your dependencies for each project separate and organaized. Instructions for setting up a virual enviornment for your platform can be found in the [python docs](https://packaging.python.org/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/)

#### PIP Dependencies

Once you have your virtual environment setup and running, install dependencies by naviging to the `/backend` directory and running:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

This will install all of the required packages we selected within the `requirements.txt` file.

##### Key Dependencies

- [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/)  is a lightweight backend microservices framework. Flask is required to handle requests and responses.

- [SQLAlchemy](https://www.sqlalchemy.org/) is the Python SQL toolkit and ORM we'll use handle the lightweight sqlite database. You'll primarily work in app.py and can reference models.py. 

- [Flask-CORS](https://flask-cors.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#) is the extension we'll use to handle cross origin requests from our frontend server. 


## Running the server

From within the `backend` directory first ensure you are working using your created virtual environment.

To run the server, execute:

```bash
export FLASK_APP=app.py
export FLASK_ENV=development
flask run
```

Setting the `FLASK_ENV` variable to `development` will detect file changes and restart the server automatically.

Setting the `FLASK_APP` variable to `flaskr` directs flask to use the `flaskr` directory and the `__init__.py` file to find the application. 

## Tasks

Casting Agency Specifications
The Casting Agency models a company that is responsible for creating movies and managing and assigning actors to those movies. You are an Executive Producer within the company and are creating a system to simplify and streamline your process.

Models:

Movies with attributes title and release date
Actors with attributes name, age and gender
Endpoints:
GET /actors and /movies
DELETE /actors/ and /movies/
POST /actors and /movies and
PATCH /actors/ and /movies/
Roles:
Casting Assistant
Can view actors and movies
Casting Director
All permissions a Casting Assistant has and…
Add or delete an actor from the database
Modify actors or movies
Executive Producer
All permissions a Casting Director has and…
Add or delete a movie from the database
Tests:
One test for success behavior of each endpoint
One test for error behavior of each endpoint
At least two tests of RBAC for each role

END POINT DESCRIPTION
```


GETS '/movies'
-Retrives an array with all movies inside database
-Required Arguments: none
-Required RBAC permission: requires 'get:movies' permission
-Returns an object with http response 200 key of success set to true and key of movie with an array containing all movies in the database

GETS '/actors'
-Retrives an array with all actors inside database
-Required Arguments: none
-Required RBAC permission: requires 'get:actors' permission
-Returns an object with http response 200 key of success set to true and key of actor with an array containing all actors in the database

POST '/movies'
-Adds a new movie
-Required Arguments: json including a key of name and release date
-Required RBAC permission: requires 'post:movie' permission
-Returns an object with http response 200 key of success set to true and key of movie with an array containing the movie just added

POST '/actors'
-Adds a new actor
-Required Arguments: json including a key of name and release date
-Required RBAC permission: requires 'post:actor' permission
-Returns an object with http response 200 key of success set to true and key of actor with an array containing the actor just added

PATCH '/movies/<int:movie_id>'
-Patches a specific actor based on the actor_id provided as a parameter
-Required Arguments: actor_id as a param used to patch that actor
-Required RBAC permission: requires 'patch:movie' permission
-Returns an object with http response 200 key of success set to true and key of movie with an array of the patched actor

PATCH '/actor/<int:actor_id>'
-Patches a specific actor based on the actor_id provided as a parameter
-Required Arguments: actor_id as a param used to patch that actor
-Required RBAC permission: requires 'patch:actor' permission
-Returns an object with http response 200 key of success set to true and key of actor with an array of the patched actor

DELETE '/movies/<movies_id>'
-Deletes a movie based on a integer id provided as a parameter
-Required Arguments: movie_id as a param used to delete that question
-Required RBAC permission: requires 'delete:actor' permission
-Returns an object with a key of success and value of true and key of movie with value of movie_id

DELETE '/actors/<actors_id>'
-Deletes an actor based on a integer id provided as a parameter
-Required Arguments: actor_id as a param used to delete that question
-Required RBAC permission: requires 'delete:actor' permission
-Returns an object with a key of success and value of true and key of artist with value of artist_id
```


## Testing
To run the tests, run
```
dropdb agency_test
createdb agency_test
python test_app.py
```

Commit message:

Submition ready
Added postman collection with variables

README.md, after:

# Full Stack Udacity Capstone API Backend

## Getting Started

### Installing Dependencies

#### Python 3.7
In order for current dependecies to work please use python 3.7 

Follow instructions to install the latest version of python for your platform in the [python docs](https://docs.python.org/3/using/unix.html#getting-and-installing-the-latest-version-of-python)

#### Virtual Enviornment

We recommend working within a virtual environment whenever using Python for projects. This keeps your dependencies for each project separate and organaized. Instructions for setting up a virual enviornment for your platform can be found in the [python docs](https://packaging.python.org/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/)

#### PIP Dependencies

Once you have your virtual environment setup and running, install dependencies by naviging to the `/backend` directory and running:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

This will install all of the required packages we selected within the `requirements.txt` file.

##### Key Dependencies

- [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/)  is a lightweight backend microservices framework. Flask is required to handle requests and responses.

- [SQLAlchemy](https://www.sqlalchemy.org/) is the Python SQL toolkit and ORM we'll use handle the lightweight sqlite database. You'll primarily work in app.py and can reference models.py. 

- [Flask-CORS](https://flask-cors.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#) is the extension we'll use to handle cross origin requests from our frontend server. 


## Running the server

From within the `backend` directory first ensure you are working using your created virtual environment.

To run the server, execute:

```bash
export FLASK_APP=app.py
export FLASK_ENV=development
flask run
```

Setting the `FLASK_ENV` variable to `development` will detect file changes and restart the server automatically.

Setting the `FLASK_APP` variable to `app.py`

## Tasks

Casting Agency Specifications
The Casting Agency models a company that is responsible for creating movies and managing and assigning actors to those movies. You are an Executive Producer within the company and are creating a system to simplify and streamline your process.

Models:

Movies with attributes title and release date
Actors with attributes name, age and gender
Endpoints:
GET /actors and /movies
DELETE /actors/ and /movies/
POST /actors and /movies and
PATCH /actors/ and /movies/
Roles:
Casting Assistant
Can view actors and movies
Casting Director
All permissions a Casting Assistant has and…
Add or delete an actor from the database
Modify actors or movies
Executive Producer
All permissions a Casting Director has and…
Add or delete a movie from the database
Tests:
One test for success behavior of each endpoint
One test for error behavior of each endpoint
At least two tests of RBAC for each role

END POINT DESCRIPTION
-Endpoints are located in the following URI:
```
https://udacity-capstone-rmg.herokuapp.com/
```
```


GETS '/movies'
-Retrives an array with all movies inside database
-Required Arguments: none
-Required RBAC permission: requires 'get:movies' permission
-Returns an object with http response 200 key of success set to true and key of movie with an array containing all movies in the database

GETS '/actors'
-Retrives an array with all actors inside database
-Required Arguments: none
-Required RBAC permission: requires 'get:actors' permission
-Returns an object with http response 200 key of success set to true and key of actor with an array containing all actors in the database

POST '/movies'
-Adds a new movie
-Required Arguments: json including a key of name and release date
-Required RBAC permission: requires 'post:movie' permission
-Returns an object with http response 200 key of success set to true and key of movie with an array containing the movie just added

POST '/actors'
-Adds a new actor
-Required Arguments: json including a key of name and release date
-Required RBAC permission: requires 'post:actor' permission
-Returns an object with http response 200 key of success set to true and key of actor with an array containing the actor just added

PATCH '/movies/<int:movie_id>'
-Patches a specific actor based on the actor_id provided as a parameter
-Required Arguments: actor_id as a param used to patch that actor
-Required RBAC permission: requires 'patch:movie' permission
-Returns an object with http response 200 key of success set to true and key of movie with an array of the patched actor

PATCH '/actor/<int:actor_id>'
-Patches a specific actor based on the actor_id provided as a parameter
-Required Arguments: actor_id as a param used to patch that actor
-Required RBAC permission: requires 'patch:actor' permission
-Returns an object with http response 200 key of success set to true and key of actor with an array of the patched actor

DELETE '/movies/<movies_id>'
-Deletes a movie based on a integer id provided as a parameter
-Required Arguments: movie_id as a param used to delete that question
-Required RBAC permission: requires 'delete:actor' permission
-Returns an object with a key of success and value of true and key of movie with value of movie_id

DELETE '/actors/<actors_id>'
-Deletes an actor based on a integer id provided as a parameter
-Required Arguments: actor_id as a param used to delete that question
-Required RBAC permission: requires 'delete:actor' permission
-Returns an object with a key of success and value of true and key of artist with value of artist_id
```


## Testing
test_app.py is included in order to run a unittest please use the following commands to successfully run the test
```
dropdb agency_test
createdb agency_test
python test_app.py
```
## Testing Postman
A postman collection is also included in order to facilitate testing of endpoints there are three folders one for each profile and an individual 
endpoint named GET TOKEN which takes in a json with a key of client and value of the RBAC profile as a string
by default the token is set to retrieve the executive producer token.
Host and jwt tokens are set as variables please go to collection settings if you need to change something like a expired jwt
Collection will be uploaded with a 24 hour jwt for reviewers to use, if by some reason the token expires please use the provided token endpoint to renew your jwt token for each RBAC profile
